
2. Character Asset Preparation:
Each character should have its own directory with subfolders:

/ArtAssets/: Contains sprites, animations, and sounds.
/Settings/: Includes the character's settings file.
/AI/: Contains the AI behavior file.
2.1 Art Assets:
Use PNG or TGA format for sprites because of their transparency support.
Each animation should be broken into individual frames, with the settings file referencing specific frames for specific moves.
2.2 Settings File:
Use a JSON format for flexibility:

json:
{
    "name": "CharacterName",
    "health": 100,
    "speed": 5,
    "animations": {
        "walk": {
            "frames": ["walk1.png", "walk2.png", ...],
            "fps": 10
        },
        "attack": {
            "frames": ["attack1.png", ...],
            "fps": 12,
            "damage": 10,
            "hitbox": {...}  // Define hitbox properties here
        },
        ...
    }
}
2.3 AI File:
A Python script or another scripting language would be ideal. This script will dictate behavior, using game states and character status as inputs.

3. Game Engine Integration:
3.1 Character Loader:
At game start, scan the 'Characters' directory for character folders.
For each character, read the JSON settings file.
Load sprites, animations, and AI behavior based on the settings file.
3.2 Character Class:
Create a base 'Character' class in UE5.
This class should have methods to load animations, handle movement, execute attacks, and react to collisions based on the loaded settings.
3.3 AI Integration:
The AI component would read the AI file of a character and execute decisions based on it.
For future machine learning integration, use placeholder function calls, like getDecisionFromModel().
4. UI & Game Loop:
Create a character select screen that displays all loaded characters using lightweight previews.
Have a battle arena scene for the showdown between two selected characters.
Implement game mechanics like health reduction, round timer, and win/loss scenarios.
5. Testing & Debugging Tool:
Develop a "test mode" within the game for third-party creators to preview and test their characters.
6. Future AI Training:
6.1 Training Environment:
Create a closed environment in the game where AI-controlled characters can repeatedly fight against each other or benchmark AI.
6.2 Data Collection:
Collect data about character positions, health, actions chosen, and game outcomes.
6.3 Machine Learning:
Use the collected data to train AI models outside of UE (using TensorFlow, PyTorch, etc.).
Export these trained models into a format that can be loaded by UE5.
6.4 Integration:
Integrate trained models using plugins or bridges, allowing the character's AI component to use them for decision-making.
7. Enhanced Documentation and Tutorials:
Offer comprehensive documentation detailing character creation requirements.
Provide visual aids, templates, or sample character configurations to guide creators.
8. Validation Script:
Introduce a validation script that checks the character data for errors or missing elements, offering feedback about any issues.
This integrated plan should provide a clear roadmap for developing the 2D fighting game with the flexibility for third-party character integrations without needing the Unreal Editor.